and SEO really impact your demand
generation results let's find out
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business grave show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actual beefy
marketing and website tips useful
podcasts goodies and more you can give
it a shot over at businessgrowth dot
email so on today's episode Tom Hunt
invited me onto his show Confessions of
a B2B marketer we talk about how SEO can
drive results if you're running demand
generation I also lay out a step-by-step
strategy of how B2B companies can make
SEO Drive Real Results to capture
prospects with high intent looking for
your solution or your offer to drive a
steady stream of inbound opportunities
and make a real impact on Revenue so
with that said let's dive into the
episode
the feo man
the SEO man the man of many SEO
personalities SEO pirate SEO man you
name it I've probably seo'd it or been a
superhero of the SEO sorts sure well I
want to I want to talk about this
specifically SEO and B2B and
specifically how SEO May differ between
these two different types of strategies
I keep hearing about on LinkedIn
um so the first one to dig into that and
then like hopefully he's going to take
us on a winding discussion through the
world of SEO and B2B so
first before you actually even get to
SEO is I'd love to understand what you
believe to be the difference between
capturing and creating demand and kind
of why it's important that us B2B
marketers know the difference
yeah yeah I think it's a really
important topic as well because in the
B2B space right now from my end anyway
Tom feel free to tell me if you see
differently but if I just scroll on my
LinkedIn feed I'm connected to a whole
bunch of B2B SAS B2B marketers B2B
leaders you name it and I often see
posts and stories and videos about
creating demand as if it's the be-all
end or like if you have a demand
generation strategy you're going to win
your business no doubts when I'm all for
creating demand but I think in the same
breath we should be creating demands we
should be creating customers revenue for
our business but why not catch the
demand that's already out there I.E
capturing people that are in the market
right here right now they want to buy
your stuff whether that's a service a
product
um so getting a balance in my opinion is
smart so the difference being that
creating demand could be things like
posting content on LinkedIn so over time
your target audience see stories they
see tips they see you as a useful
resource us over time you're building
trust you're educating the market you're
providing useful insights so when they
need your service they reach out to you
or maybe you start a podcast maybe you
do video content so you're giving people
this useful content like I said these
useful media so you're positioning
yourself as the only choice so if they
eventually need your help or someone
they know need your help they're going
to point you to them because you're the
one that they the only company they
trust whereas capturing demand can be
things like Google organic search Google
page search review sites which are Rife
in the tech industry and B2B whereby if
someone needs something so let's say
they need I don't know CRM for a small
business they type in on Google
they click your result or they click the
review site and then they inquire they
request a demo on your site so you're
literally capturing the small percentage
of the market that need your stuff right
here right now
it makes a lot of sense and it's
actually just like better business
catching demand like the acquisition
costs by definition is going to be lower
because you don't have to spend time
educating people about the problem they
have
yeah exactly that's that's the thing
that's why I don't get it so like I said
it annoys me a little bit because a lot
of businesses right now seem to be super
hot on demand creation demand generation
I agree with it like it's an awesome
long-term strategy because ultimately it
positions you as the only choice in your
customers minds but it is a long-term
play and when when you've got tools like
Google search Google ads review sites
and various others where you can
literally capture people in the market
right now why wouldn't you do both I
mean it makes sense from a revenue
perspective it makes sense to fuel your
sales team of leads
um so it's a win-win in my my opinion
total totally agree now
my next question is do you think that
SEO is more suited to either one of
those
I think SEO traditionally is more geared
and better suited to demand capture
um however I do think it can supplement
creating demand
and I do think that it can be a good
partner to demand generation strategy to
fuel your efforts
um so we can certainly dive into that if
you wish
well yeah first I want to cover like how
you would recommend like a B2B science
company with like 50 employees in the
let's go for Niche like a manufacturing
software space how you recommend them
and leveraging SEO to capture demand
okay so manufacturing software
cool are they like a new are they are
they new to SEO
yeah I would say they've got 50
employees they've got like a
three-person marketing team they're like
very technical company they've maybe
been doing some like tiny things over
the past couple of years but not really
Okay cool so yeah they've got 50
employees they've got a small marketing
team they want to crack on with SEO and
capture some demand so first and
foremost one of the first things that
you want to do on when you start an SEO
strategy is something called keyword
research so you want to actually think
about if you're capturing demand what
are our potential prospects the
potential leads that we're searching for
going to type into Google when they need
our Wares when they need our services so
if you're selling manufacturing software
um for so for example let's say if it
was a manufacturing CRM or something
like that
um you might type in something like best
CRM for manufacturing company or best
management software for manufacturing
company so what we want to decipher is
what are these high buying intent Search
terms which leaves you a long tail so
that's typically when a keyword on
Google is depending more than two words
or so what are these things that are
potential buyers these juicy leads that
we want to capture actually searching
for when they need our so an
opportunity for counselor so yeah what
are they looking for so there's there's
a bunch of tools you can use this Tom
there's a way a number of ways I
recommend
um so you can use tools like Neil
Patel's got a tool called ubersuggest
which I think's got a free version ahref
semra they're a sponsor of the show so
we're gonna we're gonna say oh yes
cheeky plug
um so you can you can use these kind of
tools where you can type in keywords
around your industry and you can get
details like how much traffic do they
get what are the competitors
um what are they up to in the industry
and you can get insights around how how
worthwhile these Search terms are going
after
um and a few things to consider when
you're doing this is number of traffic
isn't always the Beyond endle just
because a search term has a ton of
traffic doesn't necessarily mean it's
good I.E just did a post about this this
morning so if you're going after let's
say you provide manufacturing CRM if you
just went after the keyword CRM it would
almost be a never-ending Journey because
you have competitors like Salesforce and
HubSpot you're never going to beat them
unless you've got like a 250 Grand a
month marketing spend and you've got a
ton of resources it's just not going to
happen whereas if you go Niche like best
CRM for manufacturing company it's quite
targeted it's quite specific and the
chances are someone searches that
they're gonna go to your site and
probably request a contact or to speak
to yourselves or your demo so that's the
first thing defining what what people
are going to search for you can also ask
your past customers past clients what
would they use what would they search
for what kind of terminology do they use
then there's basically two main
elements to SEO Tom so there's what's
called on-page or on-site SEO everything
you do on your website and then you've
got off-page seos everything you do off
your website like building links
Distributing content all that good stuff
so
if you want your SEO to capture demand
it's important that you've got a decent
website so a website that for example
loads fast it's clear and it's messaging
so it clearly summarizes what you do how
you help guides people to get in touch
with clear and consistent call to
actions like book a call request a demo
Etc it builds trust with things like
social proof so clear testimonials video
reviews case studies you name it
um but then once you've got those kind
of website conversion best practices in
shape then
a big part of on-page SEO is making sure
your content actually matches those
search demands so if someone's searching
for like best manufacturing software
and they kind of want to get a demo they
might go to your home page or they might
go to a product specific page where it
gives them like the inside scoop on a
specific feature or a specific benefit
of your manufacturing software your
manufacturing serum whatever we're
selling so when they land on that page
it's essentially being your best sales
rep so it's given a clear idea the value
prop it's answering any common questions
they have so frequent questions that you
can leverage maybe on that page from
sales calls maybe it's got a video
summary maybe it's got a nice
infographic maybe it's got a video
review and then it's got clear call to
action to request the next step so yeah
making sure your content actually is in
line with the Search terms you want to
find and it's giving people the most
useful the most beneficial information
one thing you can do on this quick tip
is if you Google one of the Search terms
that you're going after look at what
your competitors are doing on their
information pages and try and do the
skyscraper technique so one-up them in
all areas so if they've said done I
don't know 2 000 words try and think
well that's okay we can add more
insights here we can answer more
questions we can use this unique data
stat point or these unique
demographics or this quiz or this survey
where these unique insights that we can
leverage so look for all angles that you
can beat your competitors on the search
term
um and then there's something called
technical SEO so this comes down to
things like core web vitals update with
Google so things like page speed
making sure that your website has a good
user experience so it's nice and easy to
navigate so again having things like
Pages for your main Services your
features having a Blog having a resource
section having a new section making sure
your website's easy to navigate on
mobile on desktop and PC and making sure
it's rail structured and also doing
technical things like your page titles
your heading tags your meta descriptions
your image up text so quite a lot there
that I've gone through on on page SEO so
feel free to have a quiz me if you wish
like obviously to get inbound search
like over the long term you need the
content to actually like be valuable for
the person reading it now going back to
example the manufacturing company like
the person
I I would assume that the people in the
marketing team may not have like deep
manufacturing experience so how would
you recommend they actually get content
that's going to add value to the person
to the potential buyer
yep yep so in terms of that I guess
there's a number of ways to actually
make sure your contents resonates it
answers questions all that kind of thing
so you can do
interviews with your existing customers
so existing clients and you can ask them
a whole bunch of things so if there's a
specific feature or specific topic
around your manufacturing software
um so let's say we are doing
manufacturing CRM so maybe you could ask
them things like why was this useful to
you what prompted you to reach out to us
what are kind of the main features that
are most helpful in your day-to-day what
are some of the problems that you faced
before you came to our software and how
we helped you tackle those
um who would you recommend using it and
you can do these you could do these
interviews as a podcast you could do as
a video then you could um transcript it
with various software tools that are
available out there and so you can
leverage that way to actually get those
insights because that way you're
actually asking experts
um of course if you've got people on
your team maybe you've got a technical
um tool person on your team that you can
interview as well maybe they can share
the more detail the more nuts and bolts
that are a bit less relevant for kind of
the day-to-day person but people that
are more technical might want to know so
those are quite good just understanding
kind of your existing customers why they
chose it what they like best about the
features what's useful what's unique
what are the problems it fixes
transcripting those interviews or if you
do them over the phone call taking
detailed notes and then leveraging those
insights for the content because
typically in the B2B space usually if
people come onto your site they want
answers fast
um so people don't often mess around on
sites usually they usually want to know
kind of what you do how you help can you
fix my problem can you answer these
quick questions questions I've got
they'll probably flick to your pricing
page and providing that fit ticks or
their boxes then they're going to
request a demo
got it okay so that's like the road map
for capturing to Mars essentially
keyword research understand what people
are searching for create that content
whether you're interviewing people or
getting someone an expert within the
business put it on a fast site that's
clear calls to actions and a nice design
if I was to simplify the process for on
page SEO yeah but then the thing is
depending on the competitive of
competitiveness of your Market you need
to do some off-page SEO so you might
need to build backlinks to those site to
those pages
um and now I mean there's a bunch of
free ways you can do that I mean you can
guest interview on podcasts you can get
the guests to do an article page and
Link back to you you can do guest posts
on industry relevant blogs
um you can build Partnerships with
similar companies in your space so if
there's like a complimentary company so
let's say you did manufacturing software
maybe there was a company that did a
different type of manufacturing software
or company that did manufacturing media
you could partner up with them to do
some content do some videos do some
podcasts but put articles on each
other's pages and Link that there's a
lot of ways that you can build links for
free and that are relatively stress-free
and the thing about backlinks is they
boost the authority of your website and
over time they're going to boost your
organic rankings for these pages that
you actually want to be found and
generate the leads for
makes total sense okay this is like the
foundation isn't it foreign
manufacturing company
um but let's say the manufacturing
company implement this they start
getting from like a nice inbound capture
demand
organic traffic and then they set their
demo goals for the next quarter and it's
like double what they got the previous
month just capturing demand and there
doesn't seem to be much more juice in
that
um how would you recommend that the team
that's now grown to five people yeah um
would leverage create SEO to create more
demand purely SEO
let's start with purely as yeah yeah
sure so I think like I said SEO
traditionally is for capturing demand
um now I believe it can supplement your
demand creation strategy so I'll give
you a story here so two or so years ago
when I was looking to start my podcast
business growth show didn't have a
flipping Scooby-Doo didn't have a clue
how to do a podcast I was nervous as
heck didn't know what the heck I was
doing so I think I searched on Google
something like how to start a podcast
founder one of the companies I can't
remember they were called to be fair I
think it was like podcast code podcast
dot Co or startup podcast.co whatever
started consuming their content
um they had useful articles they had
videos they had walkthroughs they taught
me through what microphone to get what
software to use to record the audio to
the video how to edit it all the things
that I needed to learn and they even
kind of set me up on an email nurture
sequence so each day they'll give me
useful tools
um and over time I think I subscribed to
something of theirs so it just shows you
that I was clueless I didn't didn't know
I didn't at the time I didn't have the
demand to capture I was in the learning
stage so this company kind of built
trust with me from my initial search fed
me the information that I needed
built trust with me by sharing saying
look we don't need to sell you right
away here's all our courses his or
guides here's our video walkthroughs
these are the tools you need this is the
hardware this is the software and really
held my hand through the process and
nurtured me and that started with a
Google search
so and at the same time if you're doing
let what you want to think of on these
what we call top of funnel SEO
strategies is what are the common
questions or what are the common
frustrations that we get on sales calls
with our prospects if you're not a sales
rep then gonna get some beers get some
coffees meet up with your sales team and
say look guys I want to make a list of
the top frustrations we get week in week
out and the top questions we get week in
week out and let's create content that
addresses that because if people are
asking you more than once you know that
several other people can have the same
question or same objection so if you've
got articles on your website if you've
got videos your podcasts that address
these you know there's real demand there
to search but you know it's higher in
the funnel so people don't necessarily
want to buy right now but they want to
learn about it so they might go to your
website they might search this question
like in my case how to start a podcast
but in this case it might be
um what to consider when investing in
manufacturing software or maybe it's
around improving processes so let's say
your CRM improves a certain process in
someone's business so like how to speed
up manufacturing times for X they search
that head to your article maybe they see
a video maybe they subscribe to your
YouTube channel and then over time
they're enjoying your YouTube videos
over that time they listen to your
podcast too and you've built so much
trust at that point then they're ready
to speak to sales so it's that kind of
in-between strategy and some businesses
when they go purely for capturing the
demand when you can think consider
people higher in the sales funnel they
just want to learn a bit more that you
can nurture over time if that makes
sense
got it so as part of this like part of
the buying journey is somebody coming to
your site consuming the content on your
site that helps them decide that
actually yeah they do need to buy this
thing yeah because you've been the
useful partner you've been the use of
resource you've educated them you've
shared free tips and it's a bit like if
you think of LinkedIn organic content
it's a similar post it's a similar kind
of strategy whereby you're kind of
posting down on LinkedIn you're
providing tips insights helpful videos
resources so every time people might
come to you but if you combine that SEO
strategy I just mentioned and you're
also running like LinkedIn ads
um trying to nurture people over time
you're sending people to case studies
you're sending people to useful
resources if you do both and then people
constantly are seeing your brand front
of mind you are going to become the only
choice
got it so apart from like writing the
content on your
blog for this for our manufacturing
company again remember the case study
what other things would you recommend
them do to create demand
outside of SEO outside of SEO now yeah
yeah so it's great demand I'd probably
just steal the strategy that I use for
our company web choice so kind of start
an industry podcast if you can
um which I'm sure you've talked about a
ton Tom because this is your space so
where whereby you can interview idle
prospects like idle fit clients if
there's like a list of 50 manufacturing
companies you want to bring on board as
clients set up interviews with them
invite them on your show ask some smart
questions build up a relationship with
them and also it gives you really great
content that your target audience is
going to be interested in
um or if there's again influences in
your manufacturing category get those
guys on board as well to boost your
credibility boost some press releases
boost some PR and at the same time it's
going to help your SEO credibility
um if your B2B Manufacturing Company
then being on LinkedIn having your main
staff on LinkedIn posting daily insights
daily tips daily helpful posts is going
to be great and likewise you can also
consider LinkedIn ads to speed up the
distribution and make sure that your
content is actually going to the people
that you want to see so your target
decision makers
um
outside of that we've talked about
LinkedIn we've talked about LinkedIn ads
we've talked about podcast video so
again if you're doing a podcast you
might as well repurpose it for do the
interview on video
Chuck it onto YouTube maybe slice and
dice those clips up into Snippets so
you've got a little promo video clips of
each one that you can repurpose again
Chuck those on social and outside of
that demand creation webinars is another
one so webinars is along the same vein
as podcast but again you can either do
your own industry insights where you
invite on prospects and interview them
or you share your own kind of company
ideas and you answer common questions
then you invite like an audience to come
on and there's a lot of repurse and
repurpose and replay value in terms of
turning webinars into podcasts into
video Snippets that you can share on
social that you can distribute on paid
onto LinkedIn to your target decision
makers and you can kind of nurture them
on top over time send them back to your
website send them to case studies send
them to useful items and build trust and
basically the big point of it is
positioning your companies that go to in
your sector
got it and now like focusing in on your
business did you run that same approach
where you were starting with more
capture demand and then moved to more
create demand and if we could just like
walk us through how you've done that
that would be great yeah for our own
business yeah so we very much did very
much so did I mean we've been doing that
web Choice we've been doing an SEO for
years and years so we've got like big
hitting terms like web development
company page one and a bunch of other
web and SEO terms so okay search for
those we get a steady flow of leads for
our website just through the SEO work
I'm just gonna do this that by the way
so keep talking I'll test yeah web
development company
um a page one in the UK so if you
we didn't this was long before the days
of demand generation creating demand and
all those buzzwords that we like to see
and like to say so this was back when we
just knew SEO is a good way to get leads
so we did that first
now um
what's that fast forward a few years
whilst we're doing SEO moved into kind
of some ads again to capture demand what
I thought is my my way is not the way
you want to follow by the way because I
started a podcast because I thought it
was cool and I just wanted to initially
interview sales and marketing leaders
that I wanted to steal ideas learn from
and basically make myself a better
seller and a better marketer so
literally just interviewed like into
industry experts and started off doing
the classic podcast where you asked
their story and then eventually asked
tips and it was a bit long-winded then I
refined the strategy so I get it more
towards interviewing industry experts
and also interviewing kind of potential
prospects of a good fit to work with us
to build relationships and also provide
value content if you're going to jump in
with the results of the test
um you are right number five and two of
them above you are like not Azure
agencies that are blog posts or like
aggregate so that's awesome
number three essentially for web
development company in the UK how has
that like over time have you just like
slowly climbed up there or did you like
Spike up higher and then come down and
so I'd love to know that and then also
what are you doing like you feel like
actively trying to improve that ranking
oh yes it's competitive right there's a
lot of a lot of it as you can imagine
there's a 100K plus web agencies in the
UK If you add on us and Europe
and then some other countries that we
rank on there's tons
um so there's always competitors trying
to basically get ahead of us and fair
enough why wouldn't they
um so yeah we do need to keep on top of
it we push out quite a lot of content we
build quite a lot of links we often
order our site we check our site's
performance all the time in terms of
speed in terms of navigation we we talk
to our customers a lot so we're often
asking like ideal clients and customers
who work like what do you think could be
improved on our site to make it more
useful what's missing what have you seen
on others so having that
don't want to say growth mindset but
putting your ego to one side and
understanding that you're not
necessarily your target client and
taking that feedback but also being
aware of what your competition's up to
um and not sleeping on it so it's not
just one of those things where you can
get the rank okay great let's leave it
for a few months it's especially in our
industry it's it's something web and SEO
you've got to be hot on it so this is a
good call to action actually for the
listeners especially in the UK Google
web development company scroll down to
right now it's five could be higher
could be low and then click on
the title is top oh no sorry the title
is a web development company UK the URL
is web design Choice click on that
because obviously if we can slightly
increase the CTA we might that helps
with the rankings right yeah if we can
get a bunch of traffic that's that's
always appreciated
I'm sorry I thought I interrupted you I
think we were talking about how your
Trend your journey of like from capture
to create Demand with yeah so it's
basically saying don't follow what I did
because I did a podcast initially for
messing around my own learning and fun
and there's nothing wrong with that but
it wasn't that strategic and then I
realized look let's let's invite
industry leaders like marketing experts
in our case because we're kind of B2B
marketing show
um and basically now we've strategized
it so we interview potential prospects
entry marketing experts and also I do
one solo episode a week with a specific
website or SEO tip and we record that on
video put it on the YouTube
um slice and dice clips for LinkedIn and
then also put it on the audio podcast
for business great show so it gives us a
mean of content and also gives content
for the guests to share and promote and
like I say builds that relationship with
our target audience so that's one
strategy I definitely recommend for B2B
companies
um and we also did the YouTube and then
another big chunk of it was LinkedIn so
in my case
as I've said on many shows initially I
just thought LinkedIn was a massive CV
um and then I thought it was a massive
pitch Fest so anyone I connected to I
just pitched saying buy my stuff then I
realized that wasn't that effective and
it was a Surefire way to get blocked in
about five minutes
um and then kind of started seeing
people actually being more of a useful
resource over time kind of a couple
years ago I started taking LinkedIn a
bit more seriously so in my case the
thing with LinkedIn in my opinion is
Clarity so being Niche so going for one
or two things that you want to be
remembered for
um so what are those one or two things
you want to be remembered for connect
with potential prospects
um and then share maybe one Daily Post
around a specific tip answering a
specific question something useful
something helpful that your target
audience can remember you for in your
sector and so over time you're stacking
that credibility
um and then likewise just engaging with
other people in the feed so if there's
people that's posting similar content or
something you can throw your two cents
and answer a question or give a
different opinion and that helps you get
found on LinkedIn as well and then also
giving your your profile as a landing
page so it's nice and easy for people to
to contact you
um so those are some of the key things
that we've done to kind of build demand
as well as the other stuff we talked
about
nice wow
I feel like this is a great resource for
like an early stage marketing team who
who are gonna be doing SEO but then also
once they have that capture the man
Foundation can move on to other things
um so Sam I want to thank you for
sharing that with them and then also
thank you for sharing like how you've
been doing it at your company and of
course I think this should be the main
call to action obviously is Google web
development company if you're in the UK
click on web design choice but of course
you can find Sam on LinkedIn and there
you have it I hope this episode's giving
you a few tips on how SEO can be of use
or maybe a few new ideas to grow your
business and revenue so with that if you
enjoyed it a quick subscribe on YouTube
or rating or review on Apple or Spotify
goes a long way and I shall catch you on
the next one cheers